The Joe Rogan experience. You, uh, you recovered from surgery. Huh?
Do you have done, dude? I've had a year. Yeah. Um, so, uh,
just over a year ago I ruptured my tricep on my left arm. All right. Um,
was attempting the log press world record. And how does the world record?
So the show was to attempt the world record. Um,
I failed at 485 pounds, which would have been a new American record.
That's when my tricep decided to crap out. So what.
Did it do? Like separate from the bone? Oh.
No, it liked my 10 and exploded.
So who typically, like when a tendon tears, it's kind of like a piece of paper,
throw a couple of stitches in it and then, you know, anchor it into the bone.
The doctor, first thing you said when I woke up was,
so when I opened up your arm,
I literally had to take a step back and rethink everything I was going to do,
because it was that much worse.
But didn't, you have an MRI to.
Go by, but like, so the MRI, we, it showed that it was torn,
but he didn't know to like what extent. And when he got in there,
he realized that literally he said,
it looked like a firecracker gone off of my tendon.
So it took 14 sutures to put my tendon back together into something he could
even attach to my elbow.
And then another four anchors into my elbow that he had to drill in.
And what was the recovery like? I mean,
I still can't straighten my arm out all the way. That's about it.
And I got like this really cute dimple now.
Oh, wow.
That's not a nasty scar. You're going.
To pull your tattoo on it.
Make it look a snake or that's what I'm thinking. Yeah. I mean, I think,
I feel like a snake is too cliche.
Maybe it's a fuse that could be it for your forum bomb for them.
My husband goes, you should make it a sperm. I was like,
[inaudible], it's like, we can just not do that because you know.
There's no need how many people have sperm tattoo to their body.
That might be like the least tattooed thing ever.
Yeah. I mean, I'm gay and I don't even want to spare him tattoos. It's probably.
A girl like sad girls, you know.
The ones that definitely have daddy issues. Oh yeah.
Yeah. So the thing explodes and what is it when it does explode?
Like what does it look like on your arm? Does it pull up?
So yeah, there was some, there was some recoiling going on and literally,
like he said, there was just like tendon fragments, like strewn about frag arms.
Literally like a bomb. Yeah. Is that just because the weight.
Of the log? Yeah. I mean,
when you're trying to press 485 pounds overhead and your body says, no,
it just goes, what do you weigh?
About 2 40, 2, 80, 2 80. Yeah. So.
That's yeah. That's 200 pounds over my body weight. Yeah. Yeah.
That's a lot of weight. Yeah. So the rehab is going well for that. Um,
and then like this, this, you.
Doing it. Oh yeah. This means when it blows up.
So this is, this is when I actually broke the record.
So I had already had the American record at this point. Um,
and then got the chance. So this was like all COVID times.
So we did like virtual record breakers.
So the judge that's an attention.
He was in Lithuania for this kind of looks like a white supremacist there
though.
[Inaudible].
So, yeah, that was 4 75, so.
Much weight now w when they do the logs, like,
did they put weight inside the log? Oh. And the EDS ends the logs. I said, yeah.
Yeah. So the log itself ways, like, I think that weighed like 160 pounds or so.
And then we had to add 20 fives and stuff to the end of it,
to us to get it to the contest, this.
Something very primal about lifting a log too. Right. Okay.
That's the sport of strong man. Right?
Like we lift stones and logs carry on our back. Like,
that's just what the sport is. Yeah.
And so the elbow just.
Totally.
And how long did it take before you could lift again?
So I was like back in the gym within like two weeks doing lower body stuff.
But the biggest, the hardest part was like getting range of motion back,
like trying to flex my elbow again, because when they did the surgery,
my arm was bent at 90 degrees. So that was a pretty comfortable position.
But getting it to straighten or getting it to bend all the way was.
Horrible.
Do they anticipate you'll ever get full range of motion fully straight?
It's been a year. So, so here's the weird thing.
Nobody can figure this out if I'm not, if I'm just here to try to raise my arm,
that's as much as I get. But if I'm pressing, like if I'm bench pressing or,
or overhead pressing, I can get to full extension, press this cup.
I think it might be too light.
Cambridge 10. This is where I get hurt. But this is where it blows out.
You'll see that.
I am Hitler guy the same way. Same dude. And there it goes. Oh.
Jesus Christ. Oh.
Yeah. And like, you know, I'm a certified athletic trainer,
like have a master's degree in sports medicine.
So like I legit knew right away what had happened.
And my husband comes over to me. He's like, what's wrong. I was like,
I just tore my tricep. He's like, no, you didn't. I was like, no, I totally did.
Oh, but you didn't think it was as bad as it was.
I mean, I knew it was torn, but like I didn't. Yeah.
I didn't think it was to that level.
Now. What kind of therapy do you do for something like that?
Once they reattach it? What's the rehabilitation like?
Um, so I mean, I, I did a lot of everything, a lot of manual therapy.
Cause like I produce a lot of scar tissue. Um, like even now,
like my electron on like the elbow bone doesn't feel like my right one.
So when you say you produce a, this.
Is my body naturally produces a lot of scar tissue.
So that was something we battled actually,
because I was producing too much scar tissue too early in the rehab process that
was actually hindering the range of motion gains that I was supposed to be
getting. So a lot of like Graston, um, cupping,
I was, I did like dry needling and acupuncture.
And one of the, one of the first times I went,
the therapist couldn't get the needle through the scar tissue because it was too
thick. And the best, the way I describe it to people is like, even with,
with me, like feeling the needles, go in,
it felt like pushing a needle through like rubber.
That's how it felt for me to knock. I felt the sticky.
And you think that's just cause you train so much.
So your body's just so used to recovering. Must be,
have you talked to other guys that are strong men?
Do they have like similar situations? A lot of us.
I like have had like the scar tissue stuff that goes on and then like,
I actually bent a few of the acupuncture needles,
like when they were trying to do them, like she pulled them out and was like,
it was curved. I was like, oh, that's at least it didn't break.
Watch the entire episode for free, only on Spotify.